But the spinoff from those really
adds to the
. . . Sure.
Back to the profile of the veterinarian, skilled,
technically skilled, good public relations,
like people, passionate and humane toward
animals, anything else? Good business. A good
business man, okay. To survive. Or
a person. A business person, right. I'm going to be
careful with that, too, in my writing.
Okay, let's talk, if you will, a bit now about the
conversion or changes in the field of veterinary
medicine, say, in the Southwest in Texas, i.e.,
moving essentially from the large animal rural
production orientation to something else, and I
don't want to put words in your mouth. Just sort of .
. . Give us an image of how things have changed. Of
course, it follows the training of people. We were
an agrarian society. I grew up in the agrarian
society. My daddy
was
a
little
turn-in-the-soil
and pure and
simple. The old cow got
sick
and was an essential utilitarian animal. But you
can get more dogs. Highly utilitarian.
Those
you know that handle their
goats and
began
to move
to the
cows, began to move to the town,
and they
longed for them. So they began the
utilitarian.
They're satisfying the emotions of people rather
than . . . From economics to emotional.
So the small animal . . . all
the way through are
surveying.
We did
this. We concocted this. We dreamed this up for the
good of the people. People
were telling you to do what you . . . You were . . . are
responding.
Do you see that through time as well, that
veterinary medicine
has been reactive, even with the public health
issue? Does
that
bother you? Are you happy with that? No.
And we have committee after committee trying to
look down the future. Not good enough to see it. And
we do what people demand.
If you don't do what people demand, you can go home.
Veterinary
medicine has changed because people have
changed, not what we have done. When
you came . . . When you got your DVM, were many people
going into small animal practice, in other words?
There were some. There were some. There were some.
But most of them didn't. And you know, at that point
in time and until this day,
there's the perception out there
because they think that's
what . . . You want to hear. We want to hear. That
isn't true anymore. It used to be. And that old
image is still hanging on there. Right now, we're
looking for more research. We're looking for more
researchers than practitioners. Where do they
go, your research products? What kind of
employment do they go into? They go into
biomedical research of many different kinds. Is
that where your best market is actually? Yeah. And
this is where we need . . .
Here's where . . . This is where we get . . . So it's the
research and development aspect. Yeah. I expect
the public perception right now, too, is still
that a veterinarian goes into practice. They go
out and they . . . Sure. They're a small animal, but
they are in practice. They don't see this side of it
at all. People come here. We've got six people, six
families come. Okay. So that still holds. Okay.
Yeah.
How do you know you have a glut? Well, when I say a
glut . . . In other words, you really get that
feedback. You're getting that feedback. Yeah. I
would assume so. I just . . . Yeah. And your . . . the
employment for large animal people is . . . Yeah. . .
.
large animal people is still pretty strong in the
market. Yes. It may even be increasing. We have a
small distribution. This is like medical
doctors. Yeah. You can't keep the hospitals open.
That's right. There's nobody . . . Closing those
hospitals. That's interesting. There
is and has been before. So I think that's one thing
we really want to work on in this book we're trying
to write, and that is to try to correctly portray
what the profession really is, you know, the
dimensions, the profile of a veterinarian, and
how they feel. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And how they
get into society.
Yeah. That used to be tough. Yeah. Rough. tends to .
. . You
know what?
. . . Is that . . . Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
Right. Right. Yeah. Yeah. That's right and that's
. . . Is that what . . . . . . You know what? . . . charge
him anything. That's right. That's what . . .
That's what . . . And that's what I'm wondering. Is
that friction . . . Redeveloping? . . . we have to
increase . . . . . . and, and . . . . . . I didn't talk
about that. . . . Okay.
Now, I'm sure there
are
instances.
Where they went wrong is they got into, if they will
stick out there, well when they go over and that's a
diagnosis to that owner enough to say . . .
I don't know what's the matter with that old cow,
but I cement the two together, you see. And they
weren't doing that. Today, they're getting back.
Are they back together, do you think, because
veterinarians have in fact been successful in
their cook? That not just our farmers... One of the
things
I,
and this
may be my own perception
in
a
romantic
way,
time changed was
when the
county agent done the veterinarian out there,
he had more publicity of the veterinarian
against
him.
There are some who do. I see a local here around this
city look down upon them, gain their
client back. They're productive, and I think that
is the
hope they'll stay with them. Produce, and people
will come to.
And the people out there knew, hey, the county
agent can do this. They're telling me he can't.
Resented that.
Cutting into his practice.
In that same vein, Dr. Briggs, how did... How has
the hinder to whatever, TVMA, TVMA, and
the public, and just how you feel about it? Did you
join TVMA, for example, right away? Is that pretty
standard procedure? Most people don't. Why? Most
of them.
We call professional, self-imposed.
We're
supposed to clean up our own acts. We don't have a
word that's
saying, you do this. We want to do it ourselves.
That's the reason we call ourselves. We clean up
our own acts. We clean up our own acts. So, in a
sense, it is a regulatory agency, would you say? It
is an intra-professional. In other words, not
from outside, but inside. Regulating yourself.
Right.
From the county to the district.
We didn't have that. Everybody's going, I'm just
doing whatever he wants to do.
Which was the major thrust of the early
association. We've been through all the records
over there in Austin. Boy, they were on the trail of
the quacks. I think that's the words they used. The
quacks were the big ones. Quacks. You can bet. And
your grandfather.
Before that.
To distinguish
them between the graduate and the non-graduate.
What had been the major thrust or efforts of the
TVMA? I think it's just that. I think all the
performance of the profession. Each of us have an
obligation to not just ourselves. To not just our
little area. We've got an obligation to our
personal. Has there been any direct influence,
TVMA say, on policies of the either deliberate or
subconscious? It
was
perceived
that
we
needed to. There's more veterinarians. This was
a, not just Texas, this was a national.
To get to that, you've got to some things that
studied it in the College of Veterinary Medicine
carefully over and decided that, you know, we
could go, instead of two semesters, we can do as
much in a trimester as we could do in a semester. A
semester was a little bit longer than a trimester.
But we did such things as all examinations were at 7
o'clock in the morning. Do things
like that. We put a little more burden on them in
graduating three.
We could better utilize our facilities. What are
you
doing
with them? Utilize that better.
The cost of the students is only three years
instead of four years.
Tuition is about the
cost of this. You could graduate and be a
veterinarian with less money. You know, there
were a whole bunch of them. Now, today,
it's
a different story. The economy today is we put more
veterinarians out there. Since that comes
down, it sits
down and
builds
it.
It's hurting us from several points. Number one is
that
high school students
out there, we're
going to
get over it. But they've been feeling it pretty
hard. And, you know, you've
got
to tell two kids out there,
get this impression. And
we have dissuaded many high school students in our
African schools. Is that right? Damn. Is that
right? Even without any real action. That's
interesting. And we're concerned about it. Yeah.
Well, yeah, because there is. The American
Veterinary Medical Association, the American
Veterinary Medical Association way back there.
Oh, I don't know. In the 1970s, hired R.D. Little
Incorporated
to survey the country, predict what our
veterinary medical manpower should be. But that
gets
around.
See, back to the high school kids again. Mamas and
papas hear that. And we have hurt ourselves.
And it has hurt preventive medicine. That's a good
illustration. Conversely now, has the College of
Veterinary Medicine benefited from TVM? In using
TVMA? Perhaps as a spokesman for appropriate
legislative appropriations, for support for
funding, or anything like that? The
TVMA,
there's
no way that the TVMA. Okay. Certainly, Charlie
Huff felt that, during his day at least. I don't
know whether that was true or not, but I can
perceive that. Well, I don't know how Charlie felt
it. TVMA staff, it worked.
But they're not going
to the legislation for the College of Veterinary
Medicine. Okay. They'll go talk to them about it.
That's better than nothing. Yeah. So, what I'm
saying is, to
really pull that off. So, you come through Texas
A&M, higher education in Texas, that's your
report? Okay. All we'll ask them to do that, the
main reasons we ask them to do that, is to let them
know that we perceive that they're helping. But
what I'm saying is, they're believing they're
helping more than they really are, you see? But our
relationship, we've got to have a relationship. I
don't want to go over there and say ourselves. I
don't want to say the two of them, they're just a
do-do thing, they'll stay out of it. That isn't
what I'm saying at all.
Well, that helps me, I don't want to make a case for
that at all, but that helps me understand the
relationship, the association.
There's another thing about it.
No, yeah, that's not what I'm saying. Well,
it's the student.
Yeah, yeah. The new graduate. Right. He's unsure
about things.
And then they, there, says, why aren't you
teaching these guys more than this, see? Yeah.
Well, he forgets that he didn't have that when he
got out there ten years ago. No, either. He was
probably more dumb than that one, but he forgets
that, see? Yeah.
He's a little constipated. They come back to us,
why don't you train them better, you know?
Are most people on the faculty here members of the
Texas TDMA? Most. Many are not.
Are the Texans primarily? I mean, you have vets,
veterinary medicine.
I mean, is there a relationship between those who
are Texans? I think
the
reason the faculty, that
they see no direct,
you know, you don't get professional credits or
anything like that. We have a bunch of them around
here that the TDMA mostly is examining,
but the Texas Veterinary Medical Examining
Board, by law, every member has to be a private
clinical. And private clinical, TDMA
meeting, and you'll have very little about a TDMA
meeting. It's veterinary medicine. So the
faculty goes and they see these things and they
say, well, where do we come in? They're not doing
anything for us. Well, they are doing things.
They're doing things for the profession, even
though it's not direct.
And we have the same thing. Everybody goes through
that. So there gets to be a little bit of, you know.
Which raises another question.
How does academia, I think
the TDMA, for example, would be a resource for
academia, for example. We go and talk to
practicing veterinarians and talk, what's out
there? So generally, they
perceive
you as a major resource for their profession and
their livelihood. It is.
Without the College of Veterinary Medicine here,
they'd have to be going to Oklahoma State or
somewhere else to get the same thing. Well, that's
a good thing.
Dr. Price, I don't want to burn you out today. I'm
enjoying it. I am, too. We are, too.
I guess maybe we'll come back to you. OK. But I
wonder, would you comment again in very broad
terms, perhaps, on some people or outstanding
accomplishments, outstanding individuals,
major problems, don't elaborate, but sort of
point things out to us that you think we should be
aware of, possibly, that you feel that we might
otherwise overlook? And I don't know what kind of
question that is, either. Well, I don't either.
Well, let me give you a for instance. One of the
things I'm wondering about is horse racing and how
that's going to impact ethically and as a
practitioner, that's obviously a current, as a
for instance,
I mean. Yes. But there's dozens of others. Well, I
think
the little girls that fell in love with the horse,
you know, that's attractive. I could be an equine
practitioner. I've dealt with horses. I've
ridden horses, you know, and trained horses and
all that. Hey, that would be just natural for me.
Yeah, they're talking about that. And I would
expect we will be putting more people out there in
equine practice.
That's one simple veterinarian, I can't remember
who it was that was saying that veterinary
medicine in Texas really began with basically
equine practice, that people were more concerned
about their horses than anything else in the early
days. Indeed. And so we might be coming back to
that. Horses are even different. Don't forget
mules. The mules. Yeah. They were very important.
Tractors, yeah. Well, that's true. You know, we
used to be called horse doctors. Yeah, that's
right. That's Mr. H-O-S-S. Hoss doctors. Hoss
doctors. Yeah. Mr. Ben Green's book is that horse
doctors. here at the college? Things that are
going on in the business. Yeah. You know, I think
that's a good question. I think that's a good
question. I think that's a good question. I think
question. Things that are going on are
fascinating. Do they? Anytime. Or they have
occurred. I don't think so. penetration, et
cetera. Heart medicine, I guess, is, is. The
history of veterinary medicine, the history of
academic veterinary
medicine in
Texas is that we trained,
not educated, trained large animal
practitioners to be successful. And we had a
national reputation for doing it. Well, that's
what the people were calling for, and that's what
we did. Well, that's changed. And we've changed.
We've had to change. We're really, in the College
of Veterinary Medicine, making an impact on,
day by day, some
things that,
on the cutting edge of technology, we're getting
in the genetic
engineering.
We can come up with some of the
congenital abnormalities and change
that. Now, does the practice of veterinary
medicine do a lot with... Well,
not enough. I can see this is another one of those
gray areas. Not enough. Most of this, now, is
really left to animal husbandry. You see
the
feed
studies on that old
cow,
and
if you don't know, you prove you're a
veterinarian. Lies
in the hands of a husband. Are you
getting people now moving, and I guess I'm sure you
are, but, exotic animals,
etc.
Sea world. Yeah. We have a lot of students. And I
know you've got a lot of publicity with your...
What's the sea?
It took care of the whales or something. Oh, Sam...
But I know that caught a lot of attention. But is
that part of a real developing area of
veterinary medicine, do you think? It's his name,
Sam. You're talking about the guy who is now at the
naval base in... I suppose, but...
We have a lot of students. Organization.
That many
jobs out there.
Explore the seas more. Protein out there in the
sea. That are all
jagged. Fish in units. It's good publicity.
Causes
people to
see such life. But you really see the trend as you
see it right now,
in the near future
at least,
is
research.
Maybe genetic engineering. I know what
you mean.
Yeah. Exactly. That research thrust. I think
we need to go into the College of Veterinary
Medicine. People
who can go out there and get the job. Find out how
this group can do it better. That's the flow. From
the research lab to the animal out there. And if we
can get that flow...